In Western music, there are 12 tones. If
you tell the model there are 12 tones,
it will only ever produce those 12
tones. You will be forever limited. And
so, for us, it was all about let's throw
away everything we know about music, and
let's try to do this from scratch. And
it's like it's just a sound wave. It's
just sampled at 48,000 times a second,
and it is a continuous, you know, float
32 number, and let's figure out how to
model that. And that was a lot of the
early breakthroughs that we had to make,
but once we did, we realized that it is
a totally generic
music-making machine. And now you are
only constrained by what you can
describe and your imagination.
I'm delighted to welcome Mikey Shulman.
Uh, Mikey is founder and CEO of Suno,
which is building a music company or a
creative entertainment platform,
uh, and has been one of the most novel
consumer applications I've seen out of
AI, and I'm very, very excited to to ask
you about, uh, your journey and what's
ahead for Suno. So, thank you for
joining us today.
Thank you for having me. I'm excited.
Okay, awesome. I want to start your
background because it is very, very
unexpected. Uh, you went from a physics
PhD at Harvard, I think quantum
computing with solid-state spins,
uh, to building the largest AI music
company in the world. Like, what insight
connected those two things for you? Uh,
you know, I don't know how I don't know
like on paper, I guess I have no
business building a consumer
entertainment company, but um, a lot of
people went from physics into AI just
like, you know, 30 years ago a lot of
people went from physics into
quantitative trading. Um,
I I'll be honest though, like I was an
okay physicist only, and um, there are a
lot of better physicists, uh, including
one of my co-founders. And I think what
I mostly learned is um
playing at the nexus of two things that
don't usually play together um is just a
massive opportunity in all domains. It
can be music and technology, it can be
uh
quantum mechanics and low-temperature
microwave engineering, or it could be
whatever else you're going to do.
Um you and I got connected in the very
early days of Suno. One of our mutual
friends, Harrison Chase,
uh was one of the earliest Suno Discord
users, and he was having far too much
fun uh making songs in your Discord.
Uh maybe tell us about the early days of
Suno. How did it How did it come
together? Did you Did you set out to
build a music company?
Um originally, we thought this would
actually be too hard.
Um and it's because uh
you have to rely on this is like pre-the
ChatGPT moment. Um we did some like
back-of-the-envelope math.
We knew we loved audio, but the
back-of-the-envelope math told us that
actually producing good music, um making
good music, generating good music, um
was like a couple of orders of magnitude
um away in terms of compute and model
size and capability. And um it's because
music, sound in general, is like very
unwieldy. It's not in discrete bits like
text is. And so we actually started
building a company that was all around
using the same technologies to make
sense of audio, not to produce it. And
um very happily, pretty early on, we had
the right breakthroughs, and we
realized, "Oh, we actually can make
music."
>> You're pretty good at math. What did you
get wrong with your back-of-the-napkin
math then? Uh the the math was right. We
just had some breakthroughs that said
like it's um it's actually
you you don't need that amount of
compute. Um you can make the right
technological breakthroughs to
if you want to think about it, basically
just compress audio really, really
efficiently. Um and that worked a hell
of a lot better than we anticipated. So
it was like a very nice being wrong
moment. Um not all being wrong moments
are are so pleasant. And
um to be clear, at the beginning, the
music was terrible, but we still uh
stayed up late.
>> was good. He was only the first 10
users, I think. He
He thought He thought he was pretty
good.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh certainly before we put it on
Discord, the music was very terrible.
Before we put it on Discord, we could
make like 12 and 1/2 second clips that
um
uh wouldn't always listen to the words
you asked them to sing. But, we had so
much fun doing it. And we thought other
people might have fun doing it. And so,
um
we kind of took the example of
Midjourney, and we said it's really easy
to put a Discord bot out and see will
people enjoy it. And we put it out
there, and a hell of a lot of people
enjoyed it. And that was um
a really confirmatory moment for us. And
so, a lot of people told us not to build
a music company. It's not the easiest
business to work in. Speech is really
big. There's a lot of great um business
use cases for building speech
technologies, but when you are staying
up late playing with the thing, and you
don't want to go to sleep, it's like a
really good sign that that is what you
are meant to be doing. And so, that's
what we did.
I love that. Are you a musician? I am.
Uh I play almost every day. Uh I grew up
playing a lot of piano, and um
ended up picking up uh picking up a bass
around age 12, and and um playing a lot
a lot more of that. Okay, so personal
passion project. That's awesome.
You know, the the revisionist history is
that um which is true is that we used to
have jam sessions at our last company in
one of my co-founders' basements. And
it's true, we had a lot of fun there.
It's not why we started the company.
Again, we thought it would be too hard
to do this. It was just fun. Meaning at
Kensho? At Kensho. Yes, where I met the
great Harrison Chase.
The Kensho mafia is like pretty
unparalleled. There's Harrison, but also
Daniel Nadler,
Sam Whitmore,
you. Oh, there are a lot of you. There's
There's a lot of us. I just credit
Daniel with that, honestly. Um Daniel is
like I think the best uh
object lesson in what talent density can
do for a company. And it was a lot of
people with non-traditional backgrounds.
It skewed very young, but he was great
at finding people and great at
convincing them to join.
I love that.
Okay, so walk us through what happens
when like somebody types
upbeat 90s hip-hop track about a road
trip. You get the prompt in, what
happens? What is the model model doing
to be able to pass something back to the
user that seems like it's quite special?
Um in some way, it's actually pretty
simple. A prompt like that, you have to
figure out what are the words of this
song,
and we use various LLMs to do that to
make the lyrics. And um so it's taking
basically the cue there is road trip,
and so like what should this road trip
be about? And it will probably get it
wrong cuz you didn't give us enough
information, but that's actually okay.
You can iterate on it. And then you said
90s hip-hop, and we try to expand that
out into
a set of cues that the model can really
understand. What is the genre? What is
the style of this music? Um and then you
put those things together, you have a
lot of lyrics, you have a lot of styles,
and we have our models that are trained
to take in all of that information and
just produce sound. The amazing thing
here is that the models don't know that
there's vocals and instruments. It
doesn't know what kind of instruments
there are. Very early on, it was
actually quite obvious to us that
the more musical knowledge we give the
model,
the more constrained it will be in a bad
way.
And so um we actually just model
everything as sound.
Um and um that's what made it so hard,
but ultimately that's what make these
things so powerful. So, just to be
concrete about it, um
in Western music, there are 12 tones. If
you tell the model there are 12 tones,
it will only ever produce those 12
tones. You will be forever limited. And
if you tell the model there's 200
instruments,
those are the only sounds that you'll
ever be able to make, and you won't get
the next Skrillex using Suno. And so um
for us, it was all about let's throw
away everything we know about music, and
let's try to do this from scratch. And
it's like it's just a sound wave. It's
just sampled at
48,000 times a second, and it is a
continuous, you know, float 32 number,
and let's figure out how to model that.
And um that was a lot of the early
breakthroughs that we had to make, but
once we did, now you are only
constrained by what you can describe and
your imagination.
That's so cool. Have you found that
we've basically just rediscovered, you
know, the existing genres of music and
the 12 notes and like have you have you
I guess independently seen just that
that same behavior emerge when you're
trying to I guess learn music from first
principles, or have you seen like a
different set of capabilities emerge?
Um no, the amazing thing is now we see
new things emerge that you never would
have thought of. And so most of the time
this looks like
blending genres that really have no
business going together. You know, so
you'll get
I don't know, trap with a sitar in it,
or you'll get um
country with 808s in it, or whatever it
is. Um and again, this is like really
empowering people to do the things that
are in their heads, and it's in a way
that um would not have been possible
without a technology like this, or would
have been really really hard. Um
we see microtonal music. It is really
inspiring to go and just look at all of
the crazy things that people are making.
Um a lot of them sound like genres you
know, and a ton of them sound like
totally strange and bizarre and lovely.
That's awesome. That's really cool. Are
there certain genres that you're you're
finding your model is better at and
certain genres where you're worse at?
Definitely. Um we are
uh
I mean, I I I attempt not to say like
good and bad about music other than, you
know, it's sampled well, like the the
the bit full bit depth or full sampling
rate, but um to the extent that you uh
can make such generalizations, we're
like very good at country, we're very
good at pop music. Um
and I think um the cartoon maybe to have
in your head is that there are some
genres that are some somewhat more
formulaic than other genres. And so
perhaps we're like
better at those. Um, but I have some
sneaking suspicion that for those, it's
it's um, as much raising the floor as it
is raising the ceiling. And for the
things where we're less good at it,
we've not raised the floor and so we
make a lot of bad music. Um, but we have
also raised the ceiling and if you were
willing to go for long enough, you'll
find amazing stuff. That's so cool.
Suno V5
uh, seems like it was a real step change
in quality. What goes into one of those
step changes?
You know, it's really hard to predict
when the step changes happen because
it's really
non-linear in
both the research inputs, but actually
it's it's um,
it's not even linear in how much like
our testing says the model is better.
Um, and so just as an example, we can
measure how how much one model is
preferred to to another model and you
may come up with it's, you know, 10%
preferred or 15% preferred and you can
take two different models and one is 10%
preferred or 15% preferred. Um, and the
uptake on the other end, how much are
users actually love it and use it or um,
how much the product grows when you
release it won't necessarily be all that
correlated with what the preference
signal is. And it's because music is
messy and there's lots of other things
that go into it. But to take a huge step
back, like we have a pretty aggressive
research road map and in some weird way,
we're always working on this thing, you
know, like we know what V6 and V7 are.
At some point, there's lots of things
that you want to have your model do,
there's lots of improvements that you
want to make and
it's almost an arbitrary cut off of
saying like, okay, this is the break,
this is what we're going to call V5.5
and everything that comes after is going
to go into the next models and um,
almost just to keep it on a steady
cadence of when we release things
because what you would we to have happen
is we don't release stuff for like 2
years and we try to make, you know, the
music model to to save humanity. Um, and
that's going to come out in 2 years and
we're going to do nothing before then.
Yeah, totally. Um, is how much of, you
know, each of these improvements you
think is just a function of scale?
Scaling compute, scaling data, and then
getting a lot of
human preference data back. How much you
guys doing that I guess more novel
research? Music is really not a scale
problem. Um, the models are pretty
small.
Um, for a variety of reasons. Um,
and I think people will often
incorrectly take what they know from LLM
land where models are giant and scale
helps a ton and apply it to music. And I
think the cartoon that I have in my head
is that in LLM land there's all of these
benchmarks and you can quibble about
which ones are flawed and which ones are
good,
but these benchmarks exist and scale is
actually a pretty efficient way to climb
up the ladder and just keep doing better
and better on the benchmarks. Um, in
music there are no right answers. There
are no benchmarks. Um, and so scale is
somewhat less helpful in solving it.
It's like a it's a messier problem in
many ways aligning models to creative
human tastes. You and I are not going to
agree on every song. You and I aren't
even going to agree on
>> I'll just defer to whatever you say. You
you you you say I I don't have I mean I
I don't think you want to do that. Um,
but so um, the the and the models not
being that big actually lets us um,
get you the music quicker which turns
out to be really important for um, good
UX. And so I think a lot of this boils
down to research
um, and preference data. And so we we
gather preference data that lets us
align models to what our users like.
A really under-appreciated thing is how
much this preference data actually lets
us do research. Like without the scale
of preference data that we have, we
wouldn't even be able to develop the
techniques that we are using. Um, and so
there are really some virtuous cycles
there in how the product itself um,
keeps getting better just by virtue of
having people use it. Interesting. And I
guess you can use the the human
preference data in a much stronger way
than the text models cuz they're all
worried about sycophancy, right? And
for you, I guess that's much less of a
challenge. 100% 100%. And so I think
yeah, there's just a tremendous amount
of edge comes from from our ability to
understand it, do research on it, and
then RL that back into our models. Hm,
that's awesome. Okay, I'm going to
switch gears a little bit and talk about
music as a consumer phenomenon and you
know, you mentioned
consumer creative entertainment platform
at the beginning. I'm going to dig into
to what that means. Um, maybe starting
with like
seems like music is just like a cultural
social phenomenon of, you know, I like
this song, I send it to to my friends,
you know, it's it's a it's a scarce
resource. We we bond over liking that
song and and, you know, having the
mixtapes, uh, listening to it together,
etc. And and so to me music has always
just been like this shared cultural
experience. That's what it is. Do you
agree with that? And then if so, what
does AI music mean for that?
Um, I agree with that very strongly.
Music has a very different place in
culture than other media
in a variety of ways. One is actually
people's tastes are far more developed
in music than they are in other media.
Like everybody has taste in music in a
way that most people don't have taste in
film or literature. And the other thing
is that music is actually inherently a
much more social medium. And if you
think about it, how going to a concert
is an inherently social thing even
though you're only really looking at the
performers and it's because of the
people around you in a way that, let's
say going to a movie in a movie theater
isn't quite as elevated as it would be,
compared to an empty movie theater, for
example. And so,
um,
I think this is actually largely that,
humans communicating sonically through
our mouths and ears, uh,
and therefore music is like a much
earlier method of communication than
than writing.
It's like much more in our DNA, I think,
music compared to other things. I'm
obviously biased. I obviously love
music. Um
I'm not sure
I think people assume that oh, you're
just going to have like AI-powered
Spotify and it's going to dehumanize it
and
music is going to get terrible. That
seems to me to be obviously wrong. Um I
don't think you're going to make a
better Spotify just by powering it with
AI.
And the thing that's really interesting
is actually how can we
not just change but elevate the place of
music in culture. And music has this
other funny thing that by virtue of
being so ubiquitous, it ends up being in
the background a lot. And um the thing
that's amazing is that AI can be used to
actually change that and to um augment
how music is perceived in society and in
culture, augment how it is used socially
because it's actually become less social
in the last 30 years. And so um that is
the corner of the universe that we play
in and that we are really excited about.
Hm.
Uh do you see yourselves as today and I
guess when you look at your users, are
people more creators of music or are
they more consumers of music or both?
This is the crazy thing about Suno. Um
before Suno, basically everybody was a
consumer of music. You know, compared to
the 8 billion people on the planet,
there are very few people who make music
and the rest of us consume it. And
that's fine. It tends to cater to
passivity. It tends to cater to
making it less social and more
impersonal. And the crazy thing about
Suno is that on any given day, 90% of
the users are going to create something.
And
the thing that's hard to wrap your head
around is you're not creating it to go
bring it elsewhere by and large to do
something with it. People are creating
music for the fun and enjoyment and
fulfillment that comes with being
creative. And so
that, the creation, is actually the
entertaining bit. And that is the big
step change. It's like everybody in the
world is creative. Um being creative
makes you feel a certain way. This is
like in our DNA. And we are basically
using technology to allow everybody to
feel those warm and fuzzy feelings. A
lot of like the inspiration for me
personally for doing this um comes from
just remembering like the the fondest
memories that I've had or some of the
fondest memories that I've ever had are
making music with my friends.
Not even performing in bands, like
practice was so much fun and you get
really close to people making music. And
it's because it feels really good to be
productive in a way that um
doom scrolling your favorite app for an
hour does not feel so good when you're
done.
I was an orchestra kid, so I was not
doing nearly as cool music as you, but I
totally agree.
>> What did you play?
Violin.
Do you still?
Yeah, not that well.
>> Um I have perfect pitch and I let's just
say I'm definitely not playing 12 tones
now, so
um and my my ears bleed when I play.
>> [laughter]
>> But I totally agree with you. That's
awesome. Okay, so it's like a
self-expression  active
entertainment platform. Some parallels
to to to gaming. And some parallels to
even like Cloud Code, right? Absolutely.
So, I think the thing the thing that's
amazing about making music is that um
you feel good and fulfilled and you
enjoy making it and then you listen to
it. And there are parallels and so
that's what we call creative
entertainment. Um the entertaining part
is being creative. It's not that you are
being creative for the sake of bringing
the piece of content somewhere else. Um
I think you see that in
um cooking. People like to cook even
though they can get a better meal at a
restaurant and it's because it it is fun
to cook and it is fun to consume what
you make. And I think a lot of what
makes Cloud Code or any of the other
platforms so special is that it's fun to
build things and it's fun to use what
you build. And even though most of the
things that I build are definitely not
meant to be hosted in AWS and used by
millions of people, I actually enjoy the
act of building and I enjoy the act of
using the thing that I built. And so, I
predict that like in 10 or 20 years,
there will be way more of these creative
entertainment things all over the place,
and it's because
that's actually finally possible. Like
that is the thing that AI unlocks. It
unlocks lots of intelligent things, too,
but it actually let everybody be
creative in almost any domain.
Yeah.
I'm guessing you have an opinion on
this. What do you think of the word
slop?
I do I do have an opinion. Uh
I actually I mean, my answer is usually
it's it's thrown around without any
meaning, and I don't know I don't I
don't know what people um
what people mean by that. Um
I made uh
two songs with my 5-year-old yesterday.
Um is that slop? In the sense that um
99.999%
of the planet has no interest in hearing
that, sure. Um but that's really
meaningful to me, and so if you call
that slop, I don't I'm not sure I care.
Um
it's an interesting question though,
right? Like uh this is this has happened
before, at least in music, where when
way more people start to be able to
produce something, people get afraid
that it's just going to flood all of our
ears and all of the platforms with more
content. And um this happened when
people started to be able to to be able
to make music on their laptops. You had
like a lot of 13-year-olds making beats
in their bedrooms. And you fast forward
to today, that seems like obviously a
good thing. Yeah, there's way more
music. It means that there's way more
bad music, um but it
also means that there's way more great
music, and there's new kinds of music
that get made. And there's new kinds of
stars that get made. And um I see no
reason why way more people making music
again would be any different from that.
I love that.
So, we talked about the floor, or the
the slop floor, or the non-slop floor.
What about the ceiling? Like what what
Tell us a little bit about the most
incredible things people have been able
to do with Suno, and um I think you guys
have had some chart-topping hits now.
Maybe talk a little bit about that.
Um we have had some chart-topping hits.
We've had people sign to record deals.
We've had people make single songs that
chart. Um, and that's amazing, and I
think about that as that is a new
creator um, coming with a new
perspective that resonates very strongly
with people. And so, that is obviously
the ceiling going up. My favorite
example is an Iamona um, who it's the
the stage name of um, a poet who took
all of her beautiful poetry that she'd
been writing for like a decade and
started to make music out of it
and found an entirely new voice and an
entirely new audience to resonate with
her art and like yeah, I think this is
fantastic. This is this is um,
people connecting, all right? These are
This is like the the most personal thing
in the world. Uh, and when you go and
listen to the music, you'll realize it's
extremely personal. Like, the best music
will always require human guidance. And
it's because music again, music has no
right answer. You like a piece of music
cuz of how it sounds and because of the
messenger who delivers it. And we will
find new messengers with new sounds, and
we already are. And that to me it's it's
like obviously the ceiling is going up
there. The other thing that's really
cool is even if there like, I just know
that there are tons of charting tracks
that have little bits of Suno in them.
They're not entirely Suno, and it's
because for the professionals, it's also
just an amazing tool to use as part of
your workflow. It's not your whole
workflow. And so, there's this weird
thing where um, I think people
incorrectly say it's like either all AI
or none AI, and the vast majority of
music will have some AI in it, just like
the vast majority of music today is
auto-tuned or is digitally produced. And
um, again, more tools let you push music
forward faster, let you find new sounds
faster. To me, this is like obviously
the ceiling um, going higher.
That's amazing.
Okay, so you chose to go after music,
which is like probably the one industry
that a lawyer would tell you not to go
after because the minute the minute
you're there, you have pitchforks
pitchforks coming after you.
Uh, you just I I I you just
had a pretty landmark settlement
partnership with Warner. Can you tell us
more about that and
what you think that means for the future
of collaboration with the existing
professional music industry?
Absolutely. Um I think just to back up,
you know,
I think people um incorrectly assume
that we hate the existing music industry
and especially we hate the record
labels. People also expect me to say
like, "Oh, the record labels are
cooked." I think that's obviously wrong.
They're some of the most culturally
important institutions in the world. Um
they understand music and they
understand music culture. Um they
cultivate and grow stars um that
resonate with billions of people.
And the way I see it, it would be a real
shame if there were two worlds of music,
if there were like an AI world of music
and a non-AI world of music. One is it
makes no sense cuz most music will have
some AI in it. But the other is it's
it's just bad for the end user to think
about having to to separate
um these things in your head and to have
to go to different platforms to have
effectively similar um
usage patterns or interactions. And so,
what I'm most excited about doing with
Warner is actually building things
together that could never have existed
before and building products that let
fans interact with their favorite artist
and really deepen um the artist-fan
connection in ways that are just
positive sum for everyone. It's great
for the artist, they get to engage with
their fans. It's great for the fans,
they get to feel like they are engaging
with their favorite artist through
music. It's great for the rights
holders. Uh obviously this is like a
heavily monetizable thing. Um and it's
something that literally could not have
existed up until like approximately
right now. And my sincere hope is that
going forward, we find way more of these
opportunities of things to build
together that couldn't have existed
until today. And just to say it out
loud, like
the digital musical experience has
basically not changed for 25 years.
We've just been streaming music for 25
years and um
I think music is like due for a new
innovation and a new format. And so,
that's what we're here to do.
When are we going to see Suno at
Coachella?
Um you probably have already. It like
it's probably in a lot of the music.
It's probably in a lot of the backing
tracks. I'm sure some of the songs
>> a main stage, you know, like a consumer
consumer participation thing.
I hope that at some point in the next
year we see a truly interactive concert
where the audience is actually able to
participate and make music with that
artist. Um one of the coolest parts of
my job is if I go and I demo Suno to an
audience of hundreds or even a thousand
people is making a song with that many
people all at once. And it's a very
special moment. It's like almost
religious, you know, like a lot of uh
religions will do like chanting and
singing in large groups and um why
shouldn't why does that have to be like
confined only to a religious context?
Why can't that happen at Coachella where
people are already so um excited about
being together at a festival. And so, my
sincere hope is that happens in the next
12 months.
Love it. Okay, we talked a lot about the
the model layer and then the
uh I guess the
cultural cultural experience of making
music. I'd love to talk about the
application layer product building cuz I
think that's also an area where you guys
have been really uh really really
innovative.
Um what's your approach to how to think
about building in the application layer?
I guess a lot to say here. The the the
first thing is actually there there
there really isn't enough innovation for
consumers right now, but the average
consumer is not willing to put up with
rough edges and it's because um you're
not using this for work, you're using
this for fun.
You're probably paying for it and not
your boss is paying for it or your
company is paying for it. And so, there
just needs to be a bigger emphasis on um
the actual experience that we deliver to
people.
Also, just if we're being honest, like
it's unclear how much moat exists in
only a model.
Um and it's like I'll just say it like
Google has started to build music models
and while ours are way better today, um
they're Google and they'll outspend us 7
days a week and um they can probably
catch up on the model side. And so I
think it's just really undervalued to
invest in the product and the UI and the
UX to make sure that you're constantly
delighting people. Um
you know, one of our company values is
actually like we're just a music
company. And in many ways I don't think
of us as a technology company. And this
is to make sure that we're not building
technology for the sake of building
technology. We're building technology
for the sake of delighting people. And
infusing that in the culture is actually
just like
really helpful in getting people to
realize what the whole point of the
company is. And so that manifests itself
in lots of little ways, but from a
product building strategy that's what it
is.
That's awesome. What are some of the I
guess consumer product decisions you've
made
that you're most proud of or that were
the most contrarian? Uh a bunch. One
that I got wrong was getting off Discord
very quickly. Um I thought we'd be on
Discord for a while. Um we got off
Discord at the end of 2023 and we
released a pretty thin not full featured
web app and it took 5 days for 90% of
the traffic to move to the web. So
that's just like a um an overwhelming
signal that I had gotten that wrong.
Maybe the biggest one and the most
contrarian one is that at the time a lot
of people were experimenting um with
music. Um let me give two actually. Um
one is to focus on songs and not just
background music, to focus on lyrical
music. And it's because a song is a
story and captivates you in a way that
vocal is background music just won't. It
was also just way harder and so nobody
was really able to do that at the time
and so by figuring that out that was
certainly um a source of moat. But in
hindsight it's not just that we were
able to do something hard, it's that the
human voice touches people in a certain
way and just makes the product way more
delightful than just making background
music for fun.
And then the other is also in the same
direction. We decided to make full
songs. And so again, a song is a story,
you know, it's maybe on average 3 or 3
and 1/2 minutes. And we optimized for
that even though originally most
technologies just let you make something
like 10 or 12 seconds of music
at the expense of sound quality. And for
the longest time, our audio was really
not crisp. And every single one of our
competitors had just way crisper audio.
And everybody could hear 1 second of a
Suno song and know, "Oh, that sounds
like crap. That's a Suno song." Um and
to just go all in on that and say like,
"Okay, we're going to make full songs
and yes, they're not going to sound
amazing, but they are still going to
tell the story um instead of making
perfectly sounding audio that just is
like background music." And so the
choice of technologies there it was to
use auto regression instead of
diffusion. Um but it was really kind of
product driven and to say like, "It's
not just that we like auto regression
cuz we have like emotional attachment uh
to that technology. It's because we
think that making a song and telling a
story is more important than making
crisp audio."
Mhm.
That's so cool.
What's ahead for Suno?
Uh 300 million in revenue run rates. I
mean, you've made it you've made it
extraordinarily far. What what's ahead?
Um a lot. I think it's it's it's really
early. Most people don't even know about
us. Um the product is still very crude.
Uh there's a lot of room to run. I think
you'll see us do a couple of things. One
is try to increasingly make it a more
social interaction.
So like music is meant to be social. Um
and so you are meant to be sharing music
more with people, but also creating more
with people. And that can be both
synchronous and asynchronous. And so
perhaps one day I'm going to share you
not even a song, but a template for a
song that you are going to explicitly
riff on and send back to me and that is
you and I kind of co-creating. Maybe
you're going to do that with your
favorite artist, with some of their old
music that never got released, whatever
that may be. And um I think you will see
us go
um
much more uh
in the direction of letting people
express themselves in the music. And so
like the last big feature we've released
is your the ability to use your own
voice. When you hear yourself in the
song, you get so much more attached to
it. But actually even more so is when I
send you a song and you can hear me in
it,
that song will resonate much more than
some nondescript voice, even if that
nondescript voice is very good. And it's
cuz the human ear is highly attuned uh
to voices. We kind of evolved that way.
And so um
both of those, being more social and
letting people pour themselves into the
music, um
will be a huge focus for us for the next
12 months.
I love that. Love music videos.
I love music videos. Uh
I don't see enough music videos getting
made. Um
I grew up watching music videos like on
MTV. Me, too.
>> And there's just a huge difference
between a music video which is
heightening the song and telling the
story versus background music to put
behind whatever YouTube content that I
may make. And I love the the former and
I'm like much less into the latter. And
it's because what we would like to do is
pull people into music more than they
are now and not just have music be
forever a background thing. Um
there's actually a video product in beta
in Suno right now. And so um people
really love it. Nice. Um
that's really cool. I can't wait. Um why
do you think
there's so few consumer
founders in AI right now? Like what's up
with that? Everyone's Everyone's waiting
for the other prize. Like OpenAI just uh
shut down Sora, uh which to me was
you know,
I mean I I I understand the reasons, but
why do you think there's so few people
building in consumer right now?
I mean I should ask you that. You're
You're the You're the professional
investor. I I mean I'm My theory is like
it's just harder and um there are a lot
of obvious business problems to solve.
Um, and
uh
I I'm you know, like a I'm I'm I'm happy
I'm happy to to have less competition,
honestly. Why do you think it is? I
think it's very clear to see how AI's
going to automate a lot of existing
business processes.
Um
I think it takes real creativity
to dream about
how AI can
seep into
the way that we actually play and
create. I think it I think it takes real
creativity to see that.
And most people when they think AI music
probably think AI Spotify, which
just sounds terrible.
And
and I think it takes a lot of creativity
to
to to do what you're doing.
Well, thank you. Yeah, I I think like um
we are much more inspired and motivated
by doing something that wasn't possible
until today instead of
um automating or speeding up something
that already exists. Not that again,
there's a lot of business value in
automating and speeding up something
that exists. Um
in some sense it is just more fun to do
something that could never have been
done before. Yeah. And like what are we
going to do with all our time after
after all the robots are doing all our
work? Like we're s-
You're not going to want to doomscroll
for an hour. You're going to want to be
You're going to want to be productive
and fulfilled. Yeah, exactly. Um awesome
Mikey, uh thank you for sharing
everything about your your journey to
Suno. It's been so cool and to see you
at the helm of a music company and an
active entertainment platform and uh
just you know,
uh defining what the creator layer means
um in a world of AI is is it's been
extraordinary to watch your journey uh
since the original days of, you know,
Harrison in your Discord. And so, kudos
on what you've done. Big admirer of of
you and Suno.
Thank you so much. This was a lot of
fun.
>> [music]
>> Mhm.